I wanted to make a video speaking a
little bit about selfishness about being
excessively self-centered and the way
that kind of warps our perception of
reality initia is a case study in this
but you know so too is my own father
in two important respects an ins
mentality his way of thinking his way of
living really does remind me of my
father
for one thing a Nissen is constantly
lying he's constantly being manipulative
and deceptive but he perceives himself
as being honest and there's a sense in
which he's being as honest with you as
he can be which is really pathetic it's
really tragedy bold and that's what my
father was like his whole life oh and
not just about sex in his sex life about
politics about his professional life
about everything and you know you could
corner my father into telling the truth
you could kind of take an hour and point
out to him the contradictions and what
he was saying and put him in check and
explain but it was such a coach
protective effort because if you then
talked to him just a few days later he'd
be back to deceiving himself on the same
issue and he'd be back to trying to
deceive you on the same issue too as if
you could be deceived
you know when you'd figured this stuff
out and after he discredited himself you
know anisia and my father both they were
men who utterly lived a lie at all times
and for that reason they're they're not
even really aware of the way in which
they're deceiving you when they're in
that act of manipulation I think this is
rooted in selfishness you know it seems
shockingly honest it seems jarring ly
honest when an isiand comes on camera
and admits to you that he had an anal
sex only relationship with this teenage
girl age 18 age 19 so he was having
vaginal sex with his wife and he was
having anal sex only
with this 18 and he just States this you
of course there's a sense of which is
just mind-blowing like why wouldn't you
just omit that from the view why
wouldn't you just not mention that it's
so damning it's so it's just so
disorienting it's unbelievable that you
would admit that and maybe some people
respond to that disclosure by then
imagining everything and is seen as
saying is tremendously honest in the
same way because you know there's this
one one detail in there that's
shockingly honest okay admit that was
not the only detail that shocked me
maybe I'm naive maybe I'm easily shocked
but of course that that one detail it in
itself is very deceptive and
manipulative in the following way
he presents this to you as if it were
the most natural thing in the world that
his wife made him promise not to have
vaginal sex with this girl his wife made
him promise not to have oral sex with
this girl and he and the girl were gonna
meet up spend a week together without
his wife they were gonna spend some time
together alone he's presented to you
with absolutely no irony by an insane as
if as if this were his wife giving
positive consent for him to have anal
sex with this girl obviously what he did
was to cynically and dishonestly
interpret his wife's telling him not to
have sex with her his wife forcing him
to promise not to have sex with her he
interpreted this as if it were positive
permission for him to have anal sex with
this curl like the fact that he made a
promise not to have vaginal oral sex
with her as if oh well as if therefore
his wife has no problem with him having
anal sex there and the depth of the
selfishness is shown in that there's
there's no consideration given
whatsoever to what this means to his
wife like how is his wife gonna feel
about it when she finds out that he met
up with this girl and he obeyed the
letter of the law
but not the spirit of the law that they
had anal sex only no factional sex like
do you think she's gonna be happy
Greg good you think she's gonna be happy
James you think she's gonna be happy
anisia I don't know what name to call do
you think she's gonna be happy like oh
good good for you I'm so glad you kept
up your side of the bargain I'm so glad
you lived up to your side of the deal
obviously she's gonna be shocked and
horrified and disoriented to learn this
and there's also no thought given
whatsoever to what it meant to the 18 or
19 year old girl and depending on which
side of the story
you bleed which version of the story you
believe I should say you know she may or
may not have lost her virginity with an
Sen but it was explicit that this was
her first experience they know sex you
know okay so in this scene you're saying
under these circumstances she agreed to
this even if we treat that as true why
is he so utterly lacking in sympathy for
the other side where he thinks through
why she agreed to this what this meant
to her you know I mean do we do we live
in a world where oh yeah that makes
sense so he has vaginal sex with his
wife and then he cheats on her with this
18 19 year-old but that's anal sex only
so that's good it's it's just surreal it
doesn't even sound like a plot someone
would come up with for a pornographic
film
you know um but he's so selfish he's so
self-centered that this doesn't just
lead him to manipulate others it also
makes him very easily manipulated by
others and again this is really
strikingly similar to my father
my father he was lying to other people
all the time but he was so easily lied
to he was so easily deceived by lies he
was so incapable of figuring out that
other people were lying because he would
never ask himself the question why is
this person telling me this what
motivates them why do they want me to
know this why do they want me to think
this way or what are they trying to make
me feel what are they
trying to make me do and if you're not
excessively selfish you think that all
the time like without even like making
an effort to compute through that step
by step all the time you're just being
sensitive and thinking ok if I tell this
to this person how are they gonna feel
about it what are they gonna assume
about my motivations like why am i
telling this you might examine your own
motivations why am i motivated to tell
this person else and you know you think
about both sides in an analytical way
and you know you may be sensitive you
may be insensitive but you're still
thinking about it you're still analyzing
it extremely selfish people excessively
self-centered people those thoughts
don't even occur to them they treat the
things other people tell them as a kind
of unbelievably simplistic fact and then
they expect others to likewise be so
uncritical and credulous and trusting in
just taking on board whatever they tell
them you know as a simple fact the part
of the tragedy of the the story in SEN
is now burden us all with is that it's
obvious all these women are lying to him
and manipulating him at every stage of
the story go this does not make an issue
the good guy don't get I really don't
sympathize with his position I really
don't it's not merely that I disapprove
of him I really do I really do heap
scorn and criticism the guy nevertheless
at every stage of the story Kai is lying
to him Laney is lying to him Laney is
manipulating him and it just doesn't
even occur to him that he's being
manipulated right like I mean at one
stage kai is telling him that she's
bisexual and completely fine with
bringing another woman into their life
the woman in this case Billy comes in
and simply because she's jealous that
he's kissing her too much I think this
is before any of them had sex she
threatens divorce just as threatened
divorce she gets a lawyer and serves him
with paperwork and moves into another
apartment there's this whole calamity I
mean the extent to what she's bossing
him around she brings this other woman
into their lives this is the more recent
woman
Sarah age 18 and 19 is what happens and
she then decides that she's only
interested in monogamy with Gregg so she
actually doesn't describe this as her
becoming heterosexual she decides that
she's gay because she she considers
herself a man but she only wants to be
in a monogamous relationship with
another man ie Gregg whereas she
formerly she originally identified as a
heterosexual female and then as a
bisexual female this went through phases
in the period of time um you know there
were such obvious elements manipulation
here his former relationship with Shiloh
fake illnesses I mean at every stage
she's lying to him and manipulating him
most obviously and demonstrably with
with imaginary illnesses that she's
making out to manipulate him all of
these women and you know even including
Sarah
they are telling an S in at different
stages what they think he wants to hear
in order to get him to do a specific
thing in order to achieve a specific
outcome and he receives all this
information completely guilelessly
in a completely unsophisticated way I
think it is because he is you know so
extremely self-centered so extremely
selfish that entails a kind of
dehumanization of the other people in
his life now I don't think I don't think
an SDN is insane you know I feel strange
saying that because I mean I do consider
my own father to have been insane I
really do in my father's case I mean I
you know I lived with my father for so
many years I observed him for so many
years but I mean this kind of extreme
selfishness I think probably if you can
remember your early childhood I think
probably it's a stage most of us go
through that we have all that have I
mean it's fundamentally just a very
simple-minded childish way of dealing
with the world you know it's not really
that you have an excessive interest in
your own pleasure in your own enjoyment
in the pursuit of your own ends
it's that your utter
failing to go through the process of
thinking thinking about other people's
perspective just thinking okay if I do
this what is my wife gonna think of me
six months from now
what is this teenager Sarah gonna think
of you say what are gonna be the
knocking Constance how is how is this
gonna be for her you know again
why is she motivated to say the things
she says to me what are the outcomes you
know I think you can be powerfully
motivated by your own self-interest and
yet be considerate towards other
people's interests and yet have a kind
of detached and analytical view of what
your actions mean for other people what
the impacts are gonna be for them you
know very simply you can be selfish and
at the same time caring and considerate
towards others I think you know what a
Nissen gives us is a case study of just
how bizarre the outcomes are when people
pursue their own self-interest in the
total absence of that kind of
consideration and part of the outcome is
that while he is lying to and
manipulating others he is himself
unbelievably easily manipulated